---
title: "C★: Unifying Programming and Verification in C"
collection: publications
category: preprints
date: 2025-04-03
author: 'Yiyuan Cao, Jiayi Zhuang, <b>Houjin Chen</b>, Jinkai Fan, Wenbo Xu, Zhiyi Wang, Di Wang, Qinxiang Cao, Yingfei Xiong, Haiyan Zhao, Zhenjiang Hu'
permalink: /publications/cstar
paperurl: 'https://arxiv.org/pdf/2504.02246'
bibtexurl: 'https://arxiv.org/bibtex/2504.02246'
---

### Abstract

Ensuring the correct functionality of systems software, given its safety-critical and low-level nature, is a
primary focus in formal verification research and applications. Despite advances in verification tooling,
conventional programmers are rarely involved in the verification of their own code, resulting in higher
development and maintenance costs for verified software. A key barrier to programmer participation in
verification practices is the disconnect of environments and paradigms between programming and verification
practices, which limits accessibility and real-time verification.

We introduce C★, a proof-integrated language design for C programming. C★ extends C with verification
capabilities, powered by a symbolic execution engine and an LCF-style proof kernel. It enables real-time
verification by allowing programmers to embed proof-code blocks alongside implementation code, facilitating
interactive updates to the current proof state. Its expressive and extensible proof support allows users to build
reusable libraries of logical definitions, theorems, and programmable proof automation. Crucially, C★ unifies
implementation and proof code development by using C as the common language.

We implemented a prototype of C★ and evaluated it on a representative benchmark of small C programs and
a challenging real-world case study: the attach function of pKVM’s buddy allocator. Our results demonstrate
that C★ supports the verification of a broad subset of C programming idioms and effectively handles complex
reasoning tasks in real-world scenarios.
